# CV

## Professional Experience

### Machine Learning Engineer

$8/20$ - Present  
[Trasys](http://www.trasysinternational.com/), Greece

Designed and implemented Parallel Distribution, a software tool for the European Medicines Agency that applies OCR on PDF
documents and generates a comparison report. The primary language of implementation was Python, while various text mining and
machine learning libraries were used. The frontend of the tool used HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to provide an interactive dashboard
of the results.

### Machine Learning Researcher

$09/13$ - $09/14$ & $09/18$ - Present  
[University of Lisbon Nova IMS](https://novaresearch.unl.pt/en/organisations/nova-ims-research-and-development-center-magic),
Portugal

Designed, implemented, and tested various new approaches for the class imbalance problem. Research focused on clustering-based
over-sampling methods that deal with the within-the-class imbalance problem. Additionally, Geometric SMOTE, an extension of the
SMOTE algorithm, was proposed and implemented. The final publication presented results showing a significant improvement over
SMOTE and its variations. Deep learning models, particularly Conditional Generative Adversarial Networks (CGANs), were also used
as over-sampling methods with great success. The frameworks of the implementation were TensorFlow, Keras, and PyTorch. Work is
published in high-impact machine learning journals. Implementation of the above algorithms was developed and made available as
open-source software. Work in progress includes comparative experiments between variations of CGANs as over-samplers and the
investigation of novel algorithms in the context of reinforcement learning.

### Machine Learning Engineer

$10/17$ - $08/18$  
[Tripsta](https://www.tripsta.com), Greece

Designed and implemented the main parts of the company's automated pricing system. These parts included machine learning
estimators for the add-ons and the competitor’s prices and the application of metaheuristic algorithms for the budget
multi-objective optimization problem. The training data of the various estimators were at the order of TB while the prediction
time of the automated pricing system was required to be less than $100$ msec for the incoming $50$K requests/sec. The
implementation languages were Python, Java, and Scala, while Spark, Dask, Scikit-Learn and jMetal were used as distributed data
processing, machine learning, and optimization frameworks/libraries.

### Data Scientist

$12/16$ - $09/17$  
[Quantum Retail](http://quantumretail.com)

Worked on demand forecasting and clustering for retail companies. Proposed and applied machine learning methods to improve the
company’s main forecasting solution based on exponential smoothing of the time series data and adjustments guided by a seasonality
curve. Boosting trees were selected as the final machine-learning model. Applied feature extraction that integrated the business
logic and extensive model hyperparameter tuning, the forecasting precision was improved by $30$% compared to the original model.

### Machine Learning Engineer

$05/16$ - $09/16$  
[CERN](https://home.cern), Remote

Developed the parallelization of various features for TMVA, the Toolkit for Multivariate Data Analysis with ROOT, as a part of a
project funded by Google. ROOT is the main framework developed by CERN to deal with the big data processing, statistical analysis,
visualization, and storage of massive amounts of data produced from particle physics experiments. The legacy version was
implemented in C++. The parallelized features included the application of brute-force and metaheuristic algorithms to the
hyperparameter grid search of machine learning algorithms. The implementation was based on Python and Spark.

### Scientific Software Engineer

$01/14$ - $05/16$  
[IRI](https://www.iriworldwide.com/en-US), Greece

Member of the IRI's "Solutions and Innovation Team" (R&D) working on the company's transition towards Open Source and Elastic
Computing. Participated in an agile team migrating IRI’s leading US "Price & Promo Analytics" Solution, generating more than
$\$25$M Annual Revenues, to Hadoop distributed storage and Spark cluster computing. Python was the core language of the
implementation, but integration with R and Julia was performed to leverage unique functionality. The legacy version was
implemented in SAS. The project's main objectives were the design of the parallelization schema, the enhancement of data
manipulation with the use of distributed processing, and the migration of the statistical modeling algorithms (regression mixed
models). The final system processed $5$ years of data for more than $300$ categories containing $1$ million products.

## Education

### Ph.D. in Theoretical Particle Physics

$09/03$ - $09/08$  
National Technical University of Athens  

### M.Sc. in Physics

$09/01$ - $09/03$  
National Technical University of Athens  

### B.Sc. in Physics

$09/97$ - $09/01$  
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens
